DOCS-10055 Exchange API (#125)
mulesoft/docs-exchange: modules/ROOT/pages/exchange-api.adoc

= Publish Assets Using the Exchange API
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:imagesdir: ../assets/images/

With the Exchange API, you can publish and consume assets, add documentation pages, add or edit categories, and even manage your public portals. For the full API reference, please see the https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/portals/anypoint-platform/f1e97bc6-315a-4490-82a7-23abe036327a.anypoint-platform/exchange-experience-api/[API documentation portal].

The API supports all Exchange asset types:

* REST APIs
* SOAP APIs
* Connectors
* Mule applications
* Examples
* Templates
* Policies
* Custom assets

NOTE: New assets count toward your organization's xref:to-create-an-asset.adoc#asset-limits[asset limit].

== Prerequisites

To benefit from this documentation, you must be familiar with Exchange, programming concepts, and command line
operations on your computer or server.

NOTE: You must have a unique artifact name and organization ID to publish your asset.

> 

Reviewer: Will, can we add an overview section listing the steps before the detailed sections?

Author: Sure! Adding now.

Author: Added.

=== Add Content to the Page

Documentation pages are written in GitHub Markdown, described in detail in the xref:to-describe-an-asset#markdown-notes[Markdown Notes].

To add your Markdown content, use this command and replace `:pageId` with the pageId returned by the previous command.

[source,console]
----
curl https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/api/v2/assets/:groupId/:assetId/:version/portal/draft/pages/:pageId \
  -X PUT \
  -H 'Authorization: bearer ANYPOINT_TOKEN' \
  -H 'Content-Type: text/markdown' \
  -d 'markdown *content* for this page'
----

=== Publish the Draft

When the content is ready, change the page's draft status to published by using this command. Publishing the draft publishes all the pages and content associated with the asset and currently in draft status.

[source,console]
----
curl https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/api/v2/assets/:groupId/:assetId/:version/portal \
  -X PATCH  \
  -H 'Authorization: bearer ANYPOINT_TOKEN'
----

== Add Runtime Information to Your Asset

> After the API asset includes all the information necessary for consumers to discover, learn, and understand your API, add the server or instance information so consumers can invoke the API. Replace `:groupId`, `:assetId`, and `:versionGroup` with the group, asset ID, and version ID of the API asset.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After the API asset includes all the information necessary for consumers to discover, learn, and understand your API, add the server or instance information so consumers can invoke the API. Replace `:groupId`, `:assetId`, and `:versionGroup` with the group ID, asset ID, and version ID of the API asset.
```

Author: Thank you! Fixed.

[source,console]
----
curl https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/api/v2/assets/:groupId/:assetId/versionGroups/:versionGroup/instances/external \

>   -X PATCH \

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  -X POST \
```

Author: Thank you! Fixed.

= Publish Assets Using the Exchange API
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:imagesdir: ../assets/images/

With the Exchange API, you can publish and consume assets, add documentation pages, add or edit categories, and even manage your public portals. For the full API reference, please see the https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/portals/anypoint-platform/f1e97bc6-315a-4490-82a7-23abe036327a.anypoint-platform/exchange-experience-api/[API documentation portal].

The API supports all Exchange asset types:

* REST APIs
* SOAP APIs
* HTTP APIs
* API fragments
* Connectors
* Mule applications
* Examples
* Templates
* Policies
* Custom assets

NOTE: New assets count toward your organization's xref:to-create-an-asset.adoc#asset-limits[asset limit].

== Prerequisites

To benefit from this documentation, you must be familiar with Exchange, programming concepts, and command line
operations on your computer or server.

NOTE: You must have a unique artifact ID and organization ID to publish your asset. The artifact ID consists of the group ID, asset ID, and version.

== Overview

> To publish assets to Exchange, this file covers these steps:

Reviewer: Suggested rewording: This topic describes the steps needed to publish an asset to Exchange and add metadata using Exchange APIs. Specifically, it covers the following steps:

Author: Sounds good! I've added the new text.

= Publish Assets Using the Exchange API
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:imagesdir: ../assets/images/

> With the Exchange API, you can publish and consume assets, add documentation pages, add or edit categories, and even manage your public portals. For the full API reference, please see the https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/portals/anypoint-platform/f1e97bc6-315a-4490-82a7-23abe036327a.anypoint-platform/exchange-experience-api/[API documentation portal].

Reviewer 3: What do we mean by "the full API reference"? Reference to what kind of info?

Reviewer 3: Omit "please"; GLOBAL

The API supports all Exchange asset types:

* REST APIs
* SOAP APIs
* HTTP APIs
* API fragments

> * Connectors

Reviewer 3: Anypoint Connectors or all kinds of connectors? GLOBAL

* Mule applications
* Examples
* Templates
* Policies
* Custom assets

> NOTE: New assets count toward your organization's xref:to-create-an-asset.adoc#asset-limits[asset limit].

Reviewer 3: ditto edits in #123 re. notice formats. See style ref.

== Prerequisites

To benefit from this documentation, you must be familiar with Exchange, programming concepts, and command line
operations on your computer or server.

> NOTE: You must have a unique artifact ID and organization ID to publish your asset. The artifact ID consists of the group ID, asset ID, and version.

Reviewer 3: This is not a note; it is another requirement.

> == Overview

Reviewer 3: Weak heading, esp. since the content is not an overview of the API but rather a list of required tasks.
```suggestion
== Tasks Required to Publish an Asset to Exchange
```

> This topic describes the steps needed to publish an asset to Exchange and add metadata using Exchange APIs:

Reviewer 3: GLOBALLY omit self-reference phrases such as "this topic," "the following section," and so on; see style ref.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Perform the following tasks to publish an asset to Exchange and add metadata using Exchange APIs:
```

. <<find-your-organization-id>>
. <<obtain-an-access-token>>
. <<publish-an-asset>>
.. <<specify-asset-properties>>
.. <<sync-and-async-publication>>
. <<describe-your-assets>>
.. <<add-tags>>
.. <<add-categories>>
.. <<add-custom-fields>>
. <<add-update-doc-pages>>
.. <<add-new-page-draft>>
.. <<add-content-to-page>>
.. <<publish-draft>>
. <<add-runtime-info>>

[[find-your-organization-id]]
== Find Your Organization ID

To find your organization ID:

> . Log in to Anypoint Platform and click Access Management.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Log in to Anypoint Platform and click *Access Management*.
```

> . Click the organization name for the top level or a business group, and view your organization ID in the organization info screen.

Reviewer 3: ditto edit question about this same sentence in #123

> . Copy the organization ID and use it in the following examples.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Copy the organization ID and use it when you try out examples.
```

[[obtain-an-access-token]]
== Obtain an Access Token

Invoking any Exchange API requires an access token.

> Your organization administrator sets the access token expiration time to a value from 15 to 180 minutes. If you perform a search or other operation that requires more time, you will need a new token.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Invoking any Exchange API requires an access token. Note that the access token provided by your organization administrator expires somewhere between 15 to 180 minutes, so if you perform a search or other operation that requires more time, you must request a subsequent token.
```

. Log in to Anypoint Platform.
. Obtain an access token with a cURL command such as the following. You can also use Postman or another application for sending HTTP commands.

> Replace `ANYPOINT_USERNAME` with your Anypoint Platform user account name and replace `ANYPOINT_PASSWORD` with your password.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Obtain an access token with a cURL command such as the following:
```

[source,console]
----
curl --location --request POST 'https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/accounts/login' \
     --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
     --header 'Accept: application/json' \
     --data-raw '{
        "username":"ANYPOINT_USERNAME",
        "password":"ANYPOINT_PASSWORD"
     }' | jq -r ".access_token"
----

> 

Reviewer 3: Replace `ANYPOINT_USERNAME` with your Anypoint Platform user account name and replace `ANYPOINT_PASSWORD` with your password.

You can also use Postman or another application for sending HTTP commands.

Use this access token in your API calls.

[[publish-an-asset]]
== Publish an Asset

> With Exchange API version 2 you can publish assets to Exchange either by submitting multipart form data or by passing a .pom file that contains the data.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
With Exchange API version 2 you can publish assets to Exchange either by submitting multipart form data or by passing a POM file that contains the data.
```

The API can also upload assets to Exchange either synchronously or asynchronously.

> The API can upload all supported asset types, including REST APIs, SOAP APIs, HTTP APIs, API fragments, connectors, Mule applications, examples, templates, policies, and custom assets.

Reviewer 3: GLOBALLY clarify "connectors" in this topic set.

> This example shows how to publish a REST API (RAML specification).

Reviewer 3: ditto prev. edits about self-reference.
We need topics to be independent; this one should not reference the next.

[[specify-asset-properties]]
=== Specify Asset Properties

> Each API call to create an asset specifies multipart properties.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Each API call to create an asset specifies multipart properties:
```

[cols="1,4,2",options=header,width="100%"]
|===
|Property |Description |Required or Optional
|name |The asset name that is visible on the Exchange portal page. |Required
|description |The description of the asset. |Optional

> |type |The type of the asset to be created. |Required if the type cannot be inferred from the file extension

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
|type |The type of asset to be created. |Required if the type cannot be inferred from the file extension
```

> |dependencies |A string of comma-separated dependencies, defined as: `dependencies=GROUP_ID:ASSET_ID:VERSION,GROUP_ID:ASSET_ID:VERSION` |Optional

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
|dependencies |A string of comma-separated dependencies, defined as `dependencies=GROUP_ID:ASSET_ID:VERSION,GROUP_ID:ASSET_ID:VERSION`. |Optional
```

> |keywords |A string of comma-separated values to be saved as an asset's attributes. Search queries can find assets by keyword. Example: `keywords=api,raml,auth,jwt,token` |Optional

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
|keywords |A string of comma-separated values to be saved as an asset's attributes. Search queries can find assets by keyword, for example, `keywords=api,raml,auth,jwt,token`. |Optional
```

> |properties |Some asset types require additional properties specified with the properties prefix, such as `apiVersion`, `mainFile`, or `assetLink`. Example: `properties.apiVersion = v1` |May be required for some properties and some asset types

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
|properties |Some asset types require additional properties specified with the properties prefix, such as `apiVersion`, `mainFile`, or `assetLink`, for example, `properties.apiVersion = v1`. |Might be required for some properties and some asset types
```

|===

> This example uses multipart form data to upload a RAML API spec to Exchange.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following example uses multipart form data to upload a RAML API specification to Exchange.
```

Download the file used in this example from the https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/portals/anypoint-platform/f1e97bc6-315a-4490-82a7-23abe036327a.anypoint-platform/exchange-experience-api/minor/2.0/pages/Asset%20Creation/[asset creation] page on the Exchange API developer portal.

> Replace `/file-path/training-american-flights-api-1.0.0-raml.zip` with your local file path.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Replace `/file-path/training-american-flights-api-1.0.0-raml.zip` with your local file path:
```

=== Specify Synchronous or Asynchronous Publication

To use the synchronous method, add the header `x-sync-publication:true`.

To use the asynchronous method, add the header `x-sync-publication:false` or send a request with no `x-sync-publication` header.

If the asset is published asynchronously, then a response like this is returned:

[source,console]
----
{
"publicationStatusLink":"https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/api/v2/organizations/67ac7cde-c02c-457f-b826-da2474e63d5a/assets/67ac7cde-c02c-457f-b826-da2474e63d5a/wsdl-asset/1.0.0/publication/status/d47a22a5-90f6-49eb-bfd0-d9fff575e022"
}
----

The endpoint `publicationStatusLink` provides the asset publication status.

[[describe-your-assets]]
== Describe Your Assets

After publishing your assets, enrich their metadata and make them easier to discover by adding optional xref:to-describe-an-asset.adoc#add-asset-tags[tags], xref:to-manage-categories.adoc[categories], and xref:to-manage-custom-fields.adoc[custom fields].

[[add-tags]]
=== Add Tags

This example shows how to insert or replace tags on an asset.

Each asset is uniquely identified by the combination of its group ID, asset ID, and version.

> To specify the asset, replace the identifiers `:groupId`, `:assetId`, and `:version`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following example shows how to insert or replace tags on an asset. Each asset is uniquely identified by the combination of its group ID, asset ID, and version. To specify the asset, replace the identifiers `:groupId`, `:assetId`, and `:version`.
```

> NOTE: This command replaces any existing tags on the asset.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Note that this command replaces any existing tags on the asset.
```

[source,console]
----
curl 'https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/api/v2/assets/:groupId/:assetId/:version/tags' \
  -X 'PUT' \
  -H 'accept: application/json' \
  -H 'authorization: bearer ANYPOINT_TOKEN' \
  -H 'content-type: application/json' \
  -d '[{"value":"rest-api"}, {"value":"documentation"}]'
----

[[add-categories]]
=== Add Categories

Categories are managed fields that the organization administrator adds and maintains.

> This example uses a previously created category with the name `apiType` and sets that category value to "System API" on the asset.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This example uses a previously created category with the name `apiType` and sets that category value to `System API` on the asset.
```

Each asset is uniquely identified by the combination of its group ID, asset ID, and version.

> To specify the asset, replace the identifiers `:groupId`, `:assetId`, and `:version`.

Reviewer 3: I would combine all these again.

[source,console]
----
curl -X PUT \ 
https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/api/v2/assets/:groupId/:assetId/:version/tags/managed/apiType \
  -H 'Authorization: bearer ANYPOINT_TOKEN' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -d '{
    "tagValue": ["System API"]
  }'
----

[[add-custom-fields]]
=== Add Custom Fields

> 

Reviewer 3: GLOBALLY condense these individual sentences into a single intro para; I'll stop marking the rest.

> This example uses a previously created custom field with name `subType` and sets that category value to "OAS" on the asset.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This example uses a previously created custom field with name `subType` and sets that category value to `OAS` on the asset.
```

Each asset is uniquely identified by the combination of its group ID, asset ID, and version.

To specify the asset, replace the identifiers `:groupId`, `:assetId`, and `:version`.

[source,console]
----
curl -X PUT \ 
https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/api/v2/assets/:groupId/:assetId/:version/tags/fields/subType \
  -H 'Authorization: bearer ANYPOINT_TOKEN' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -d '{
    "tagValue": ["OAS"]
  }'
----

[[add-update-doc-pages]]
== Add and Update Documentation Pages

> Each Exchange asset has associated documentation to provide an overview and other information about the asset. These APIs require the Exchange administrator or Exchange contributor permissions.

Reviewer 3: Are we equating asset with API? Clarify "These APIs".

To add or update documentation using the Exchange API:

. Add a new page in draft mode.
. Add content to the page.
. Publish the draft.

[[add-new-page-draft]]
=== Add a New Page in Draft Mode

> To add a new documentation page, use this command and replace `:groupId`, `:assetId`, and `:version` with the values for your asset.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To add a new documentation page, use this command and replace `:groupId`, `:assetId`, and `:version` with the values for your asset:
```

[source,console]
----
curl https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/api/v2/assets/:groupId/:assetId/:version/portal/draft/pages \
  -X POST \
  -H 'Authorization: bearer ANYPOINT_TOKEN' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -d '{ "pagePath": "Security" }'
----

> When the command succeeds it returns the `pageId` of the newly created page.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When the command succeeds, it returns the `pageId` value for the newly created page.
```
OR
```suggestion
When the command succeeds, it returns the page ID of the newly created page.
```

> Exchange shows the new draft page on the asset's Exchange portal page under the default Home page. To edit this page and publish the draft, use either the portal user interface or the API steps below.

Reviewer 3: ditto re. "below": topics must be independent for reusability.

[[add-content-to-page]]
=== Add Content to the Page

Documentation pages are written in GitHub Markdown, described in detail in the xref:to-describe-an-asset#markdown-notes[Markdown Notes].

> To add your Markdown content, use this command and replace `:pageId` with the pageId returned by the previous command.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To add your Markdown content, use this command and replace `:pageId` with the page ID you obtained earlier. 
```
ditto re. referring to a separate subtopic

[source,console]
----
curl https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/api/v2/assets/:groupId/:assetId/:version/portal/draft/pages/:pageId \
  -X PUT \
  -H 'Authorization: bearer ANYPOINT_TOKEN' \
  -H 'Content-Type: text/markdown' \
  -d 'markdown *content* for this page'
----

[[publish-draft]]
=== Publish the Draft

> When the content is ready, change the page's draft status to published by using this command. Publishing the draft publishes all the pages and content associated with the asset and currently in draft status.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Publishing the draft publishes all the pages and content associated with the asset and currently in draft status. When the content is ready, change the page's draft status to published by using this command:
```

[source,console]
----
curl https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/api/v2/assets/:groupId/:assetId/:version/portal \
  -X PATCH  \
  -H 'Authorization: bearer ANYPOINT_TOKEN'
----

[[add-runtime-info]]
== Add Runtime Information to Your Asset

> After the API asset includes all the information necessary for consumers to discover, learn, and understand your API, add the server or instance information so consumers can invoke the API. Replace `:groupId`, `:assetId`, and `:versionGroup` with the group ID, asset ID, and version ID of the API asset.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After the API asset includes all the information necessary for consumers to discover, learn, and understand your API, add the server or instance information so consumers can invoke the API. Replace `:groupId`, `:assetId`, and `:versionGroup` with the group ID, asset ID, and version ID of the API asset:
```
